My current employment as a computer programming trainer coupled with my computing industry experience has enabled me to develop many skills and qualities that have set me up well for a career in teaching computing.

I have vast experience in classroom teaching from my current job and have I have received very positive feedback from trainees regarding my group lessons and one on one tutoring. Furthermore, my students have had very positive results in their examinations and very good feedback from the clients that they go on to work for.

As well as delivering training, I am also the course co-ordinator meaning that I am responsible for organising and creating course content including lesson plans, exercises and assessments. I especially enjoy coming up with fun and engaging exercises.

I also run coding sessions for secondary school children who come on school trips to our offices which I thoroughly enjoy. I love the diversity in learning styles and abilities of secondary school children and look forward to tackling the challenges that this can bring. Teaching secondary school children would bring me genuine job satisfaction, seeing a child achieve beyond their expectations is a wonderful reason to go to work.

Working with children in Football has been a rewarding experience. I am a qualified FA referee and I am a Level 2 FA Coach. While refereeing I remain calm and patient under considerable stress, these qualities will help me with the challenges that teaching can bring. When coaching I led groups of children through practical sessions, promoting group cohesion and a fun learning environment.

I have spent time observing lessons in a secondary school which has furthered my understanding of what is involved with school teaching and extracurricular activities. I was really inspired by how one teacher was able to make a dance class fun and enjoyable for everyone, even the students who had preconceptions about dance and wouldn’t have benefitted from the class as they did. I have more observation time in secondary schools lined up for 2017.

Computing is an important subject and recent changes to the curriculum have done a lot to bring it in line with industry needs. The skills that children learn in computing are becoming more and more essential as technology starts to drive the world. It is a subject that I love and one that I want every child to have the opportunity to learn.

My experience in teaching computer programming alongside my experience in working with children make me the perfect candidate for a secondary school computing teacher. I have all the necessary skills and qualities required to succeed.
